README.md, before:

![Go](https://github.com/akbarnes/dupver/workflows/Go/badge.svg)

# Dupver
Dupver is a minimalist deduplicating version control system in Go based on 
the Restic chunking library. It is most similar to the binary
version control system [Boar](https://github.com/mekberg/boar).
though it borrows design conventions from the deduplicating backup
applications Duplicacy, Restic and Borg.
Dupver does not track files, rather it stores commits as snapshots more like
a backup program. 

Dupver has not been tested on repository sizes more than
a few GB, but it is expected to scale up to the low 100's of GB. 

There are a number of [similar software projects](similar-software.md) both
in terms of technical implementation and use case.

## Installation
To build:
``` bash
go mod init dupver
go mod tidy
go get github.com/akbarnes/dupver
```

## Usage

### Commit
To commit from within a directory
``` bash
dupver commit 'a message' 
dupver ci 'a message' 
```

### Log
To list all the snapshots:
``` bash
dupver log
```

This takes an optional "quiet" argument, which when enabled causes log to only print the snapshot ids in chronological order.
``` bash
dupver log -quiet
dupver log -q
```

To list the files in a particular snapshot:
``` bash
dupver log snapshot_id
```
This takes an optional "quiet" argument, which when enabled causes log to only print the relative file paths
``` bash
dupver log -quiet snapshot_id
dupver log -q snapshot_id
```

## Checkout
This takes an optional argument to specify an output folder. To checkout a snapshot:
``` bash
dupver checkout snapshot_id
dupver co snapshot_id
dupver -out output_folder co snapshot_id
dupver -o output_folder co snapshot_id
```

## Repack
This consolidates small packs from multiple commits. It will also skip chunks that are not associated with a snapshot, allowing for deletion of snapshots.
``` bash
dupver repack
```

Commit message:

add section about archive handling

README.md, after:

![Go](https://github.com/akbarnes/dupver/workflows/Go/badge.svg)

# Dupver
Dupver is a minimalist deduplicating version control system in Go based on 
the Restic chunking library. It is most similar to the binary
version control system [Boar](https://github.com/mekberg/boar).
though it borrows design conventions from the deduplicating backup
applications Duplicacy, Restic and Borg.
Dupver does not track files, rather it stores commits as snapshots more like
a backup program. 

Dupver has not been tested on repository sizes more than
a few GB, but it is expected to scale up to the low 100's of GB. 

There are a number of [similar software projects](similar-software.md) both
in terms of technical implementation and use case.

## Installation
To build:
``` bash
go mod init dupver
go mod tidy
go get github.com/akbarnes/dupver
```

## Usage

### Commit
To commit from within a directory
``` bash
dupver commit 'a message' 
dupver ci 'a message' 
```

### Log
To list all the snapshots:
``` bash
dupver log
```

This takes an optional "quiet" argument, which when enabled causes log to only print the snapshot ids in chronological order.
``` bash
dupver log -quiet
dupver log -q
```

To list the files in a particular snapshot:
``` bash
dupver log snapshot_id
```
This takes an optional "quiet" argument, which when enabled causes log to only print the relative file paths
``` bash
dupver log -quiet snapshot_id
dupver log -q snapshot_id
```

### Checkout
This takes an optional argument to specify an output folder. To checkout a snapshot:
``` bash
dupver checkout snapshot_id
dupver co snapshot_id
dupver -out output_folder co snapshot_id
dupver -o output_folder co snapshot_id
```

### Repack
This consolidates small packs from multiple commits. It will also skip chunks that are not associated with a snapshot, allowing for deletion of snapshots.
``` bash
dupver repack
```

## Handling Archives
I've been thinking about special handling for archives. In the meantime, a workaround is to add archive extensions to `.dupver_ignore`

```
**.zip
**.docx
**.xlsx
**.pptx
**.vsdx
**.slx
**.qgz
```

The archives can then be extracted to a folder, say `.dupver_archives` with a pre-processing script

``` fish
for f in **.zip; unzip -d .dupver_archive $f; end
```

``` PowerShell
dir -Recurse *.zip | % { Expand-Archive $_.FullName -DestinationPath .dupver_archive }
```

These scripts are minimally tested and will probably clobber existing files if two archives contain files with the same relative paths. An open question is if traversing archives is fuctionality that should be added to dupver, or if it is better to use a pre-processing script and add some special handling (e.g. don't print out individual files in some archive types such as .docx on log). Pre-processing is quite suitable for archives-as-document-containers (which are typically less than 100 MB), though would add more external dependencies and could use up significant disk space for large archives.
